>> Mike: So now we're installing Nx.
My workspace is ready.
It's giving me a link to connect to it.
This is going to take me to NX cloud.
I already have given it access here,
so I think we're good.
Great.
So now I want to run pnpm exec
nx browser run-many -t build.
So this is gonna run the build target for
every project in the workspace.
We're going to run it again to see
the result of cache computation.
So here we go.
And we don't even need this.
Exec is this is superfluous.
So simplify things.
So we're saying pnpm and then because
this is a JavaScript CLI tool,
NX Run Many is the command we're
using when invoking the CLI tool.
And this is saying T for target build.
So it's running build for three targets.
It has a nice fancy UI that'll exit.
Great.
Two seconds.
And here's the same command again.
23 milliseconds or
sorry, 202 milliseconds.
Maybe 23 for each of those tasks to run or
something like that, it is lightning fast.
If you use Turbo build, the reason
I got a question at the beginning
of this course about which do I prefer,
Nx or Turbo build?
I love them both because
they both do this,
they both involve distributed caching and
they both have the potential
to dramatically
speed up your builds Here again,
as you can see from the CLI output,
nothing stops us from continuing to sorry,
pnpm.
Yep, nothing stops us from using Lerna for
some things if we like that --since.
Or we can drop down and
use NX when we have to.
It's all good.
Just think of it as almost a high
level API and a low level API.
Here's the config file
that it generated for us.
So here's your JSON schema and
we've got target defaults.
And what these mean is essentially
we could start to get rid of the test
command in our package JSONs of our
monorepo packages like this models.
I can get rid of test.
Do not click that.
We'll do test and lint.
We'll get rid of both of those in every
package just to show how this works.
Lint and test and lint and test.
And the reason I'm doing this is it's like
a subtle difference between LERNA and nx.
So this
should
work.
I know what's happening here, derp.
All right,
without further configuration here.
Yeah, if it's just arranged like this when
we say there are targets, you can think of
these almost like commands to run within
packages without doing anything here.
This is just simply saying run the script.
But what you can do is set up
additional configuration here,
like, let's just go to the docs and xvite.
There it is.
You could set up this plugin, which,
let me find a good example,
I just need one.
Tasks and caching, No,
I want something that's
using nice arguments here.
Here we go.
Look at this.
So if we grab this here, we're no
longer in a world where we're saying,
I'm just running pnpm
lint in each package.
What we can do here is in that
one nxjson file we could say,
here's how linting works.
In my repo, I have a source folder,
I have tests in a test folder,
I have an eslint config at
the root of my project.
So this is like when you're using these
executors, which these are referring
to plugins effectively, where this
is the package of the plugin and
this is almost like the command that
you're running within that plugin.
Then you can start to say,
all right, the source of truth for
running tasks in all of
my monorepo packages.
It's more in the NX configuration
than anything else.
And that's where you can start to factor
out the individual per module NPM scripts.
Now, there's still room on a per project
basis for you to customize that.
What you end up doing is creating
one of these project JSON files.
And the nxjson files target defaults
field is very, very similar to this.
It's basically the fallbacks if there
are no package specific instructions for
how does lint run,
how does build run, how does dev run?
But it really lets you strip a lot
of responsibility out of those
package JSON files and make it more
about stating dependencies and
stating exports and imports.
And you're kinda moving
the task definition into a tool
that can have an increasingly
high amount of awareness.
I want to point you to one more thing.
This depends on thing we could do this and
what that would let us do.
Sorry, let me undo some of
the changes I made here.
Wanna add these back in,
so that's in models.
This is in server test and lint.
Great.
Lint and test.
Great, great.
Okay, so we're back out.
And now if I were to say nxrun test,
see how it's running the build
in addition to the test.
Let's say you were set up in your Monorepo
such that you really wanna point to
that build output folder when you're
depending on a Monorepo package.
Some people would make this choice
because you'd say, hey listen,
that's the package I'm about to publish.
I want to actually be pointing at that
dist folder and run against it in as close
a way as can be to the way an external
user would be integrating against this.
So no tricks.
Well, you'd say we gotta
do the build first.
We can't run tests
without the build first.
Another good reason to do that is if
you're not using something like vitest.
If you're using Jest and
it's operating in the world of
needing compiled JavaScript and
declaration files in order to run,
it can't run just by pointing
typescript modules at it.
You do this as well.
But this gives you so
much more control than lerna,
which just knows task and
then dependency graph.
The additional degree of freedom here you
get is like task dependency graph and
interdependencies between tasks like
run prettier first before you lint so
that you auto fix all of
the code formatting and
then let's see what the linting says
as opposed to the other direction
where you'd say all right, eslint lit
up a bunch of formatting issues and
now we've auto formatted
them after the fact.
But you could see how it's valuable to be
able to sort of arrange your tasks and
then have your dependency graph and then
be able to say, all right, now taking all
of that into account, only run the things
that are relevant to what I've changed.
Now we're starting to see
the ability to have a development
experience that feels small even as
your project is starting to get large.
So we were using PNPM workspaces
to organize packages.
What are the benefits or trade offs of
using NX's project based setup compared
to relying just on PNPM for workspaces?
I'm not sure how to answer that one.
NX is not a package manager and so
it's still going to be the thing that's
managing your node_modules folder.
I think maybe this is the way
to answer that question.
Pnpm, obviously it still has it still has
some awareness of if we
run this command here,
it knows what depends on
what it knows models first,
then server and
UI can happen in any order.
But what I would say is nx it can't
replace PNPM nor Does it intend to?
Because that's your package manager
that's managing your dependencies and
things where they overlap is.
I'd say PNPM is a less sophisticated
task runner and orchestrator than Nx.
If for no other reason,
it doesn't really give you a great way of
understanding interdependencies
between tasks.
PNPM has no knowledge of git diffs and
how they can be joined with
the dependency graph to run only
the subset of things that you need to run.
And PNPM has no idea.
It doesn't give you a way to say,
well, when I say I want to run test,
I really want to run build first
anytime I'm running test or
reuse an existing build artifact.
So use package managers for
the package manager role.
But as your monorepo starts
to get interesting and
as build speeds start to be a little
bit of a snag on productivity,
which your project gets to a sizable
point, it's going to happen.
That's where you want to lean on something
like lerna, at least for basics.
And then you can eject out to NX as you
want to get more sophisticated about
saying, all right, well,
we now have a dozen tasks.
We've got.
We've got many package and syncpack and
we've got formatting of the package JSON
files and prettier to format other things.
We've got svelte type checking and
then we've got eslint and
maybe we've got one set of linting
rules that we're actually enforcing and
then another set that we
aspirationally want to switch to and
we want to see that report but
not fail the build based on that.
Then finally we can run our tests.
If you want that kind of control,
that's where you're going to end up
ejecting out of LERNA and getting into
NX or maintaining the alternative,
which is a very elaborate set of shell
scripts that are trying to place these
things in order and
that will get very unwieldy very fast.
So I would say if you start to have
these needs, just start using nx.
Skip the point where you fall under
the crushing weight of a massive pile
of disorganized shell scripts.